Advanced usage
==============

This section contains some advanced examples for using
pytest-dependency.

Dynamic compilation of marked parameters
----------------------------------------

Sometimes, the parameter values for parametrized tests cannot easily
be typed as a simple list.  It may need to be compiled at run time
depending on a set of test data.  This also works together with
marking dependencies in the individual test instances.

Consider the following example test module:

.. literalinclude:: ../examples/dyn-parametrized.py

In principle, this example works the very same way as the basic
example for :ref:`usage-parametrized`.  The only difference is that
the lists of parameters are dynamically compiled beforehand.  The test
for child `l` deliberately fails, just to show the effect.  As a
consequence, the test for its parent `d` will be skipped.

.. _advanced-grouping-fixtures:

Grouping tests using fixtures
-----------------------------

pytest features the `automatic grouping of tests by fixture
instances`__.  This is particularly useful if there is a set of test
cases and a series of tests shall be run for each of the test case
respectively.

Consider the following example:

.. literalinclude:: ../examples/group-fixture.py

The test instances of `test_b` depend on `test_a` for the same
parameter value.  The test `test_a[7]` deliberately fails, as a
consequence `test_b[7]` will be skipped.  Note that we need to call
:func:`pytest_dependency.depends` to mark the dependencies, because
there is no way to use the :func:`pytest.mark.dependency` marker on
the parameter values here.

If many tests in the series depend on a single test, it might be an
option, to move the call to :func:`pytest_dependency.depends` in a
fixture on its own.  Consider:

.. literalinclude:: ../examples/group-fixture2.py

In this example, both `test_b[7]` and `test_c[7]` are skipped, because
`test_a[7]` deliberately fails.

.. __: https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/fixture.html#automatic-grouping-of-tests-by-fixture-instances

Depend on all instances of a parametrized test at once
------------------------------------------------------

If a test depends on a all instances of a parametrized test at once,
listing all of them in the :func:`pytest.mark.dependency` marker
explicitly might not be the best solution.  But you can dynamically
compile these lists from the parameter values, as in the following
example:

.. literalinclude:: ../examples/all_params.py

Here, `test_b`, `test_d`, and `test_f` will be skipped because they
depend on all instances of `test_a`, `test_c`, and `test_e`
respectively, but `test_a[13]`, `test_c[6-5]`, and `test_e[def]` fail.
The list of the test instances is compiled in the helper function
`instances()`.

Unfortunately you need knowledge how pytest encodes parameter values
in test instance names to write this helper function.  Note in
particular how lists of parameter values are compiled into one single
string in the case of multi parameter tests.  But also note that this
example of the `instances()` helper will only work for simple cases.
It requires the parameter values to be scalars that can easily be
converted to strings.  And it will fail if the same list of parameters
is passed to the same test more then once, because then, pytest will
add an index to the name to disambiguate the parameter values.
